What runs using linux

hardware - motherboard, RAM, CPU, video card, monitor and mouse

OS - drivers, system calls, libraries

micro kernels - kernels inside kernels

kernel modules - add support for the new hardware

    unix > minix > linux > GNU > Stalman
     v
    Bell Labs
     v
    UC Berkely
     v
    Copywrite
     v
    BSD - Berkely Software Distribution (Academia of Unix)

BSD
-1993 free BSD
-Net BSD
-Open BSD
-Security - centric
  -BSD "Jails" Chrooting

apt-get update - installs update on your ubuntu machine

apt-get install - installs any package you enter

apt-get - package management system. allows you to add different packages from repositories online. It'll track updates as packages are added to the repositories. Also works with the packaging system to handle the pendencies. 

kde - popular desktop environment for Linux

markup language - language that determines the presentation of text. HTML is an example.

github uses a markup language called markdown (.md.) It's designed so you can get lots of info while also having control over links, embed images, etc.

C++ - compiled programming language.

kubuntu - ubuntu's own version of kde. 

dpkg - used to remove any package or plugin. Alternatively, you can use apt-get remove.

apt-cache search - search all packages with any keyword

ps - displays processes running on the terminal

ps aux - displays all processes running on the computer

what the | (pipe) does is take output from one command and put it into another command

up arrow brings up the command you entered last

PID - process ID

TTY - if the command is outputting to the console, it will have a TTY value attributed to it

ps aux | grep [thing] - search for a thing in a thing

top - lists whats using the most CPU by default

swap - RAM thats stored on your hard drive

lsof - list of open files

sudo su - makes you become super user

more - dumb navigation system, use less instead

Everything in Linux is a file

man [command] - gives you help on a specific command

pstree - lists processes in a tree, so you can see what the original processes are, and what the child processes are. 

whereis [thing] - lists where the binary file is

whereis libreoffice - outputs /usr/bin/libreoffice. In order to start up Libre Office, simply type /usr/bin/libreoffice.

ls - lists all files in directory

l -l - shows all permissions on all of the files

rwx-rwx-rwx - means everyone can read, write, and execute the file

drwxr-xr-x - the 'd' means it's a directory

chmod +x or +r or what have you - changes permissions on any file

lrwxrwxrwx - the 'l' means its a symlink

symlink - 

cd ~ - means 'go to your home directory'

git - a revision control system. Used in text-based OS's with no GUI.

Linux kernel created in 1991

in 2002, Linux used a distributed version control system called bitkeeper

github - for-profit company. Largest code repository service. Centralized place to distribute your code from. 

repository - folder for a project

commit - what gives git most of its power. Different from a push in that it's a change made to your local code, and not something online.

branch - new dev path we can follow as long as we'd like without interfering with our original path. If we mess something up in our branch, we can just return to our master branch and continue as if nothing ever happened.

fork - like a branch, but it creates an entirely new repo for you to manage on your own, essentially borrowing it from another person. Some repos have thousands of people forking codes and trying to make it better.

.gitignore - a file that tells git what to ignore. 

pull request - 

